Example:
I bought a 1 acre of land and I build house in it though the house I build doesn't even require 1/2 acre of land. So other land become unnecessary so I tried to make a place where people would get a rent of it. The first one where I build the house in full 1 acre became unefficiency whereas the house which I build in limited place with all fulfillment i.e. in 1/3 acre is efficiency.

Devops is all about improving efficiency. 
Now Virtual Machine came into the picture.

I am having a code and build an application which is there in my local. 
I bought a server which has a configuration of 100 GB and 100 core and the team is just using 4GB and 4 core. Then that is being used inefficiently.

I bought a physical server from HP. And this physical server I gave it to the team 1.
After buying this physical server I install hypervisor. Hypervisor is a software which installs virtual machine on the server. I made logical sepration of the server by splitting it into 5 parts of the one server which became 5 server. This is called as logical isolation. These all are Virtual Machine 1,2,3,4,5. 

Popular Hypervisor is vmware, xen. 


Virtual Machine:

Virtual Machine are the one which is basically creating virtual environments that function as virtual computer systems. These virtual computers have their own RAM, Hardware, memory, cpu. These are logical servers. Hypervisor is doing the entire process. 
Hypervisor is dealing with all these things. It is a key to create a virtual machine.

Amazon build data centers in Nepal that means they buy or they take a huge land and they install their own physical servers. They buy a millions of server and put them in the data centers.

AWS have basically data centers in Singapore, Mumbai, Ohio.
They have made the racks of physical server from p1 to p100, it has 100 GB ram and 100 core.

Someone requested VM of 10GB and 12 CPU. It will look into the rack and see which is idle. It will ask to the hypervisor which is full responsible for it. AWS will say to hypervisor and hypervisor will create this virtual machine. 

AWS sends ip address and all other necessary things. 

What would have happened is Mumbai data center would be at most used by 100 people because there 100 physical servers so they can only share this 100 physical servers with 100 teams or 100 individual user groups. But instead by using the concept of virtual machine or hypervisor what amazon has done is instead of 100 people or 100 teams now these virtual machines can be used by millions of users. 
